전쟁 중의 독일 제국

서부전선의 상황은 끔찍했다. 1916년 중반 솜 공세에서 엄청난 사상자가 나오고 프랑스 군을 베르됭에서 후퇴시키지도 못하자 카이저 빌헬름 2세는 참모총장 에리히 폰 팔켄하인의 대안을 찾을 수 밖에 없었다. 군부 내각의 수장이었던 모리츠 폰 링커는 파울 폰 힌덴부르크와 에리히 루덴도르프의 두 원수가 그 자리를 맡아야한다고 주장했다. 카이저는 팔켄하인을 해임하는 것을 싫어했지만 결국 1916년 8월 29일 팔켄하인은 참모총장에서 사임한다.

동부의 상황은 안정적이었다. 브루실로프 공세는 팔월이 지나며 둔해졌고 루마니아의 지벤뷔르겐 침공은 생각보다 위협이 되는 일은 아니었다. 루마니아의 수도는 12월 함락되었고 왈라키아 전역이 곧 종료되며 러시아 전역은 더욱 확대되었고 러시아의 공세는 더 이상 불가능해졌다.

참모총장으로 지명되고 삼차 최고사령부(OHL)가 설치된 지 단 이틀 만에 힌덴부르크와 루덴도르프는 군수와 경제 정책으로 “힌덴부르크 프로그램”을 발표했다. 프로그램의 목표는 탄약 생산량을 2배로, 야포와 기관총의 생산은 3배로 올리고, 군수 산업, 행정을 중앙화하고 온 국민이 총력전에 대비하는 것이었다. 프로그램의 일부인 애국 보조 업무 법은 라이히스타크에서 뜨거운 논쟁을 낳았다. 사민당, 진보인민당, 중앙당과 국가자유당의 일부 자유주의적 의원들은 전쟁 수행에 중요하지 않은 공장의 폐쇄와 여성의 공장에서의 강제 노동에 대해 반대했다. 그들은 불편한 동맹을 형성했고 라이히스타크에서 법이 재고되어 여성과 노동자들을 위해 50명 이상을 고용한 업체에서는 노동조합이 설치되었고 노동조합이 사용자들과 동등한 교섭권을 지니게 되면서 중공업 고용주들과 OHL은 낭패를 겪는다.

전쟁 수행의 중앙 집권화는 1916년 11월 빌헬름 그뢰너의 Kriegsamt(전시 보급국)가 설치되며 시작되었다. 공식적으로는 프로이센 전쟁성에 종속된 것이었으나 실질적으로는 OHL의 소관이었다. 산업을 재편하는 그뢰너의 첫 지시는 비효율적이고 성과가 없었다. 농업 생산량은 작업장, 비료, 말의 부족으로 끔찍하게 감소했다. 심지어 물자가 도시나 전선으로 보낼 준비가 되어도 이동 수단이 죄다 중공업과 군에 투입된 터라 이동도 불가능했다. Kriegsernährungsamt(전시 급식 관리부)는 도심에서의 식량부족을 배급을 통제해서 막아보려 했지만 성공하지 못했고 1916~1917년의 순무의 겨울은 독일 제국의 도심 인구 중 100만명의 사망을 낳았다.


1917 

새해는 동부에서의 러시아의 공세가 실패하며 시작되었다. 동시에 슐레지엔의 플레스 성에서는 회의가 열렸다. 카이저, 베트만-홀베크 수상, 그리고 힌덴부르크와 루덴도르프를 포함한 고위 지휘관들은 무제한 잠수함 작전의 재개에 대한 회의를 거쳤다. OHL, 라이히스타크, 많은 지휘관들은 이에 호의적이었지만 베트만-홀베크와 해군성 장관 카펠은 이를 강하게 반대했고 카이저가 이를 승인하지 않도록 했다. 루덴도르프의 영향력이 성장하는 것을 우려한 카이저는 최종적으로 이를 승인하지 않았다. 루덴도르프는 카이저의 결정에 실망했고 베트만-홀베크를 제거할 것을 결심했다.


이 시점부터 루덴도르프와 고위 지휘관 중 그의 파벌들은 매번마다 베트만-홀베크 수상의 신임을 떨어트렸다. 얼마 안가 베트만-홀베크 수상은 OHL을 반대하게 되었다. 1917년 2월 사민당은 선거 개혁 요구를 다시 시작했으며 놀랍게도 수상의 지지를 받았다.

루덴도르프와 그 측근들은 이 계획에 반대했지만 독일 병력이 다시 힌덴부르크 선으로 후퇴하며 카이저가 베트만-홀베크의 선언을 받아들이지 못하게 할 영향력을 상실했다. 1917년 3월 7일 카이저 빌헬름 2세는 공식적으로 프로이센식 삼 계급 투표제가 폐지되고 비밀 직접선거제로 대체될 것을 선언했다. 베트만-홀베크는 그들과 친해지려 했지만 민주적인 의원들은 여전히 수상에게 반대했다.

사민당은 급진좌파 의원들이 독립사회민주당으로 분당되며 다수파 사회민주당으로 불리게 되었다. 며칠 후 베를린과 라이프치히에서 전쟁으로 생활이 황폐화된 것을 항의하는 파업이 일어났다. 파업의 크기는 작았지만 곧 제국의 다른 도시들로까지 번져갔다. 이에 대한 조치는 파업을 달래기 위해 배급의 양을 늘리고 주간 노동시간을 52시간으로 줄이는 정도만 행해졌을 뿐이었다. 카이저와 수상은 평화 조약을 맺기 위한 독일의 전쟁 목표에 대해 논쟁을 거쳤다. 베트만-홀베크는 합병에 반대하고 이전 상황의 유지에 찬성했으나 모호한 태도를 보였고 카이저는 이를 싫어했다. 수상에 대한 카이저의 불만을 들은 루덴도르프는 베트만-홀베크를 겨눈 음모를 실행했다. 그는 카이저가 수상이 유지된다면 전쟁에 패배할 거라고 믿게 만들었다. 카이저는 베트만-홀베크의 과거의 조언에 이미 실망한 상태였고 라이히스타크와 루덴도르프에 흔들려 누구도 따르지 않는 수상을 해임했다.

The sudden removal of von Bethmann-Hollweg made the Reichstag majority not able find a candidate to unite behind, so on the 14th of July Georg Michaelis - an inexperienced conservative politician, who would be obedient to the OHL - was appointed to be the new chancellor of Germany. He had the backing of the DkP, DRP and a few aristocratic-conservative Zentrum deputies. Michaelis wasn’t able to garner a majority in the Reichstag, which hindered his ability to rule efficiently as chancellor.

The “Kriegsamt”, established a year ago, in accord to the Hindenburg programme failed to create a more efficient production of goods for the war effort. Ludendorff lost his faith in Groener who was not able to run the department successfully and replaced him with Heinrich Schëuch , who ran the War Raw Materials Department – a brainchild of Walther Rathenau - with success before. The new year started with an unsuccessful Russian offensive in the East. In the meantime a conference was held in the castle of Pleß, in Silesia. 

A big success for the Zentrum was the abolition of the Jesuits Law (Jesuitengesetz) in April. Recognizing that the government needed their support to form a majority in the Reichstag they had to cave in to their demands.

By 1917 the influence of von Hindenburg and Ludendorff and the weakness of the Kaiser became clear. The civilian government had effectively lost all its power. Neither did the Kaiser - he couldn’t even decide on who would be his advisors be without consulting the duo before. If one of them would speak out against any of the moves of the OHL, they’d have to sign their resignation at the very same day.

The MSPD, Zentrum and the FVP opposed the Kaiser's move to name Michaelis the new Reichskanzler; they thought he is too weak to be in that position. They soon started plotting to depose him, with Michaelis’ Balkan tour being a good moment for the parties to decide on a candidate to support as new chancellor, as they want to avoid the same blunter that the disposal of Bethmann-Hollweg caused. On the 23th of October the Interfraktioneller Ausschuss and the NLP met. They agreed on a minimal programme, which advocated for a reform of the three-class franchise in Prussia and bigger attempts on making peace. They then recommended Wilhelm II to appoint a new chancellor, who opposed this as it was a step towards parliamentarisation of the Empire. Michaelis however pleaded for his resignation on the 26th of October. On the 1st of November, Georg von Hertling , the minister president of Bavaria, was appointed as the new chancellor of Germany by Wilhelm II.
Georg von Hertling was obedient to the OHL as Michaelis was before him. His appointment forced the Reichstags faction of the Zentrum to tolerate a policy which most of its deputies opposed. Matthias Erzberger , the most important politician of the parliamentary faction opposed the appointment of von Hertling, as they were political rivals.

An important sign of the opposition of the Reichstag to these developments was the passing of the peace resolution, signaling to both allied and enemy countries, that the Empire was willing to sign a peace without annexations and with the aim of creating a peaceful and stable Europe like it has been before the war.

The Kaiser making rash decisions, based on the whims of the OHL, was not the only thing the parliament had to fear. The DVLP (Deutsche Vaterlandspartei), a right wing movement was founded by Alfred von Tirpitz , Johann Albrecht von Mecklenburg , Wolfgang Kapp , Alfred Hugenberg and other prominent members of the German far right in the Summer of 1917. The dangerous extra-parliamentary opposition is staunchly anti-democratic and wants to establish a strong dictatorship in Germany – either by replacing Wilhelm II with the crown prince or a military strongman like von Hindenburg or Ludendorff. They call for massive annexations in Europe and Africa, the establishment of a truly market liberal economy as opposed to the current planned economy introduced by the Hindenburg Programme and most importantly the total destruction of the British Empire.
In July 1917, the German Supreme Command under general Ludendorff issued a memorandum outlining their intentions towards Poland. Germany would annex a “border strip” of approximately 20,000 square kilometers, expel the existing Polish inhabitants and resettle the area with ethnic Germans. Poles living in Germany itself or other German-occupied areas were to be encouraged to move to the newly established Kingdom of Poland. Using language that conjured up an idealized medieval Germany - namely the term Grenzmark (German: Frontier March), calling back to the Empire of Charlemagne - Ludendorff called for patriotic Germans to move to West Prussia and the Polish Frontier Strip . He focused particularly on veterans of the Weltkrieg to relocate, portraying them as a vanguard to protect the Empire.

On the battlefield many important events took place. The German Army withdrew to the much more defensible Hindenburg line . A French Offensive in April was completely shattered – causing large scale revolts within their army. The British Army failed to capitalize on its victory in the Battle of Passchendaele. In December an American freighter, loaded with Christmas gifts from German Americans heading for Germany was sunk by a British submarine, killing several US crewmen. The public backlash forced a partial opening of the blockade, averting the looming spectre of famine in Germany, as experienced in the Turnip Winter duing 1916/1917.

The forces in the East were slowly and steadily advancing. Large parts of Austrian Galicia were retaken and the city of Riga fell to the German Army in September. The Russian Civil War started in October and severely threatened the Russian war effort. The Germans took the two largest Russian Baltic islands during “Operation Albion”.

1918
The disagreements between von Hertling and Erzberger escalated in May with a speech from Erzberger before the main committee of the Zentrum. The executive committee of the party sided with Hertling while most of the parliamentary party backed Erzberger. The division between the right-wing of the party and the left-wing of the party reached their peak; this caused many party members to go as far to believe that the party would soon be split. On the 30th the Reichsausschuss of the Zentrum published new guidelines which called for unity amongst its party members. Most members realised it was the hour of destiny for the party, which caused the guidelines to be effective in re-creating party unity.

Thanks to the partial lifting of the blockade shipments of food, clothes and other consumer goods were able to reach the German Empire. Another turnip winter was successfully averted. The Kriegsamt was able to free up more horses, trucks and trains to transport food to the population centers and the War Office of Food was able to hand out larger rations than in the previous year. The economy has been able to recover slowly with some of the previously closed businesses allowed to operate again. After signing the Ukrainian-German peace treaty (Brotfrieden) in February the situation in the East remained tense – the Russian Republic was collapsing and wanted out of the war and the Central Powers were more than eager to finally end the War in the East as well. In the first week of March the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk between the German Empire and the Soviet Union was signed:
Congress Poland, Lithuania, and the Courland were to be ceded to the Central Powers
Plebiscites should be held in Livland, Estonia and the Ukraine to determine the status of those territories in future
The German Army has to withdraw all of her forces from the areas where plebiscites were supposed to be held
Germany annexed the Polish Frontier Strip from Congress Poland
After the Russian government signed the treaty, many battle hardened troops were transferred from Russia to the Western Front, but thousands of soldiers needed to be stationed in the newly acquired territories for peacekeeping measures and to ensure the stability in the newly created countries.

The outcome of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was heavily criticized by the newly formed DVLP which argued that the former Russian territories should be directly annexed into the Empire and colonized by German people. The MSPD, FVP, the Polish Party and radical leftist groups opposed the annexation of the Polish Border strip. While the DkP was satisfied about the new buffer states against Russia, it feared that the newly conquered lands would hurt the influence and the economy of the junkers. The MSPD and the FVP demanded that plebiscites should be held there to determine if these Poles want to be a part of the Empire. The members of the Zentrum who advocated for annexations support the treaty, while the supporters of the peace resolution were against it, even though the peace resolution didn’t prohibit the Brest-Litovsk Treaty. The only parties that wholeheartedly supported the treaty are the NLP and the DRP.

The Western Front remained calm from January to March, until the Entente launched the Great Spring Offensive. Failing to achieve its objectives by June, with more than 800.000 casualties on the Entente side, widespread mutinies within the French Army and Germany finally regaining the upper hand on the Western Front once more, this offensive proved to be devastating for the allied nations. Operation Teutoburg, a combined German/Austrian/Bulgarian offensive was launched in May to defeat the allied armies at Salonika. Field marshal Erich von Falkenhayn led the successful operation and Greece capitulated on 3rd of July after the fall of Athens.

The situation on the home front grew tenser by the minute; the people were exhausted from the war and demand the government to sign peace. The MSPD, FVP and Zentrum also opposed the continuation of the war, but Chancellor von Hertling didn't agree with them. With the Great Spring offensive offensive failing and the fall of Greece imminent, the OHL thought it could push for even better terms of peace, but the Entente still believed that the war could be won and no negotiations were started.


The partial lifting of the blockade did help defeating hunger in the short term, but many citizens started to support more radical organizations that propose to end the war, the liberation of political prisoners - most notably Karl Liebknecht - and the abolishment of the monarchy in Germany. The most notable of these groups is the “Spartakusgruppe”. The USPD decided that the right time has come to overthrow the government and prepared for a peaceful revolution. Its supporters are workers, students and radical intellectuals. They engage in massive nationwide anti-war demonstrations and strikes against the government lasting from late August to early September 1918. The OHL tried to break the strikes, by arresting various radical socialist leaders, to no avail. On 9th September, Spartacists engaged in combat and took over various government buildings including the Stadtschloss in Berlin and the Munich Residenz. They were quickly crushed by the 11th, with the event being dubbed as the 'September Insurrections.' 
The majority of the USPD members realized that their revolutionary movement stands no chance against the government, which made them re-approach the MSPD. Both parties started negotiating about a potential reunification. After two weeks of stiff negotiations the leaders of the MSPD and the USPD Friedrich Ebert and Hugo Haase, announced that the USPD would rejoin the MSPD once more.

In the following month the Enabling Act (Ermächtigungsgesetz) was passed by a majority in the Reichstag, granting the Reichskanzler the ability to pass laws without the agreement of the Reichstag.
The law was used for the first time on the same day by Chancellor von Hertling, on the behalf of General Ludendorff to ban all socialist parties (excluding the SPD) on the 14th of October.

The passing of the Enabling Act, the constant attacks by the right wing parties, the ban of socialist parties as well as the government's continued effort to issue war bonds finally led the SPD to the decision to officially end the Burgfriedenspolitik. The uneasy relationship between the reformist and the radical SPD members eases a lot afterwards . The deputies that formerly represented the USPD are pleased by the move. While the NLP, DRP and DkP immediately start to attack the SPD and discredit them as traitors to the fatherland, both FVP and Zentrum remain silent. DVLP members called for the SPD leadership to be put on trial for betraying the fatherland. The OHL remained calm – knowing that they can bypass the Reichstag with the new Enabling Act .

The SPD now openly agitated for ending the war once more. While calling for demonstrations at Christmas, Reichskanzler Hertling met with general Ludendorff at castle Fürstenstein in Silesia. Fearing that the political situation may deteriorate further Hertling made hints that he’d resign soon. An enraged Ludendorff left in the middle of the meeting and heads for the OHL headquarters in Spa.

On 10th of December Reichskanzler Hertling asked for his resignation. The Kaiser allowed it and immediately named the popular field marshal Paul von Hindenburg his successor. Von Hertling‘s resignation greatly strengthened Erzberger within the party, as von Hertling was one of his most ardent opponents.
While the Prussian conservative parties cheered at this decision, the democratic opposition in the Reichstag protested against the Kaiser’s decision, knowing that there was nothing they can do against his decision.

The OHL now had full control over the Empire. The new chancellor immediately prohibited the SPD from holding demonstrations at Christmas and threatened that he will send the army to Berlin to pacify any protesters. Not wanting to repeat the mistakes from earlier this year, the SPD decided to hold off and wait for a better time.

The year ended with democracy in decline while the OHL and especially Ludendorff strengthened their positions. The army celebrated many victories in both East and West.

1919

Despite von Hindenburg's warnings, anti-war demonstrations took place in many German cities, especially in Berlin, Saxony and the Rhineland. The Zentrum condemned their actions, fearing that the demonstrations would turn violent. The 5th Guard Division however was told to stay put, to not risk any escalation of the brewing internal conflict.
The “Kriegsamt” has proved its usefulness under the command of Heinrich Schëuch and was able to produce enough guns, ammunition and artillery to supply the Army. The War Office of Food is able to raise the rations even more, after Ukrainian grain arrives in the Empire. The admiralty’s “Scheer-Programme”, a project to build up the fleet and challenge the Royal Navy – similar to the “Hindenburg-Programme” introduced in 1917 showed very little success.

With enough reserves, both in material and manpower, the Spring Offensive began on the 2nd March 1919. Infiltration tactics proved to be successful and Nancy fell on the 16th of March. The last village in Elsaß-Lothringen was recaptured on 20th of March, much to the dismay of many francophile Alsatians. The French organized an ad hoc defense, leaving their flank exposed. The German attack on Reims on 26th split the allied forces in two. The army quickly advanced towards Chateau-Thierry and take it, to stop the French from retreating to the Marne. On May 31st the first short distance artillery shots hit the capital, starting the siege of Paris. At the same time a combined offensive of German and Austrian troops in Italy took place. With Italy losing more and more ground, the Ethiopian Empire and the Dervish State declared war on Italy as well. After negotiations both nations joined the Central Powers in June.

Even if Germany reached Paris, the Frenchmen, now under Petain, have managed to block the prized infiltration tactics with a combination of defense in depth and armoured counter-attacks. The German lines were even broken in the Oise region, but the gap was quickly filled back up, and the Heer used the sheer exhaustion of the French resources to shatter their rear front, which, together with increased desertions and mutinies, delivers the final blow to the enemy armed forces. The Franco-German armistice is signed on October 4th, putting an end to 5 years of war with the promise of the signing of a peace treaty in the coming month.

The German Army enters Paris on the 6th of October and held a parade. French and German diplomats met for the first time in the Versailles castle while German troops started retreating from the core of the French territory to the border territories the armistice agreed to be occupied.

The treaty of Versailles is officially signed on 6th November 1919 between the representatives of the French, Belgian, Luxembourgish and German nations. Its clauses are:
Annexation of the Briey basin and a coastal strip from Dunkirk to Boulogne-sur-Mer to the German territory
Annexation of Ivory Coast, Dahomey, Gabon, French Congo, Ubangi-Shari, the southern half of Chad, Madagascar, French Somaliland, the Comores, Reunion island, Indochina and the various French territories in the Indian and Pacific oceans including its Chinese concessions to the German colonial empire
Transfer of the Moroccan protectorate from France to Germany
Military occupation of the Nancy region for 15 years by German forces
Payment of a 100 billion marks indemnity by France to Germany over the next decades
End of all trade between France and the British Empire by 1st January 1925
Destruction of French forts on the Belgian and German borders, including the Verdun fortifications, by the French forces
Luxembourg becomes a member state of the German Empire
The Belgian institutions will be remodeled to form a Flemish-Walloon Kingdom led by a German King
Temporary occupation of Belgian Luxembourg by the German Empire under the pretense of bringing order to the region, administered by the Duchy of Luxembourg
The Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg annexes a strip of land, including the city of Arel.
Occupation of the northern bank of the Moselle around the city of Nancy, for 20 years
Belgium will give unlimited access to its military installations and to the port of Antwerp to the German forces
Annexation of Belgian Congo into the German colonial empire
At the height of the offensive the DVLP decided to consolidate its movement. On 15th of June, the day Wilhelm II was crowned in 1888, they officially formed a party. Many of its members, mostly DkP deputies from East & West Prussia switched sides. Alfred von Tirpitz presented the party as a reasonable far right-movement capable of compromising with other parties and governing the German Empire. Now that the war came to an end its influential members demanded to pursue a more conservative-agrarian policy, however von Tirpitz, Albrecht von Mecklenburg and Heinrich Claß are having none of it and further pushed for an integration of the neglected conservatives in the west and the urban centers, to counter the already strong influence of the SPD there.

The peace treaty with France was welcomed by the population. The SPD, FVP and the Zentrum opposed it as too harsh and demanded to return the annexed territory. They blamed the chancellor and the OHL that the nature of this treaty will only cause future wars, not prevent them. The DVLP thought that the treaty is too easy on the French and denounced the OHL for not pushing for more land. They demand for Germany to annex more territories soon in “the following war”. NLP, DkP and DRP are pleased with the outcome. The German industrialists greatly supported the annexation of the Briey basin. It is said that they already agreed on a split on who gets which mines.

The victory on the continent did not mean the end of the war. With the allied forces pushed from the mainland and France being in a revolutionary state, Britain tried to challenge the Hochseeflotte in late 1919, culminating in the 2nd Battle of Jutland , which ends in a defeat for the Royal Navy. 
After the defeat of the Royal Navy, the British Empire approached the Central Powers to sign an armistice. After negotiations the armistice was signed on 24th December 1919 at Rosenborg Castle in Copenhagen. 

With peace in Europe, Germany prepared for an intervention in Asia to defeat Japan. After Siam joined the Central Powers earlier that year, a small German detachment was sent there to start fending off Japanese troops in the newly acquired colony in Indochina. The troops deployed were not used to jungle warfare and merely helped the Siamese defend their territory, until the Hochseeflotte was fully repaired and ready to fight a battle in these far away seas.

1920 

On 3rd January 1920 the war in Africa ended. Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck and his guerilla fighters were informed that an armistice had been signed. Upon their return on 31st January large masses gathered to welcome the defenders of German-Africa.
The OHL decided to evacuate from the annexed Coastal Strip as syndicalist militias engaged in fights with the German garrisons. Fearing an escalation of the situation, the troops retreated to occupy a more defensible position near Dünkirchen. The War Office of Food was able to again raise the rations of food given out. The Kriegsamt allowed some of the previously closed businesses to reopen once more. It also loosened the spending and storing restrictions of raw materials. The Reichsbank was ready to combat the inflation of the Mark, which was hurting the economy badly. Especially in the years of 1918 and 1919 the prices of goods produced in Germany rose. The president of the Reichsbank, Rudolf Havenstein, established a team of renowned economists, including Karl Helfferich, Hjalmar Schacht and Hans Luther. Havenstein and the OHL favoured a tax reform, which would create new taxes and centralize tax collecting, taking away the privileges from the constituent states. The reform was surprisingly supported by the Zentrum and passed by Chancellor von Hindenburg, despite heavy opposition from Bavarian and Alsatian representatives. Additional measures were discussed, but in the end they were deemed unnecessary. Kaiser Wilhelm II was present during two of the meetings and was astonished by Hjalmar Schacht’s charismatic appearance.

The Ufa, founded in 1917 by the OHL as a propaganda tool, released the movie “Argonnerwald”. The movie portrayed a squad of soldiers valiantly defending against French troops during the Spring Offensive. The film portrayed the soldiers as modern heroes, fighting to keep monarchy and fatherland safe from any foreign invader. The movie made heavy use of anti-Entente prejudices and anti-Semitism. The story was not well received by critics, however it was lavishly designed and shot with the latest techniques, leaving many cinema visitors impressed by the pictures. This marked the beginning of the production of a wide variety of propaganda movies.
The partial demobilization of the army caused many issues that needed to be dealt with. Many young men returned home as invalids. Many soldiers remained unemployed for months or even years. Labourers that started to work for the armaments industry during the war are dismissed, but couldn’t return to their old work with many businesses either still being closed or having found new workers. Britain and Germany have signed a white peace, but they were still in direct competition with each other. The Anglo-Japanese Alliance fell apart and Germany fears that they will not be able to hold on to their newly won territory. This lead to the start of the Dreadnaught Race . Although the public had little interest in the naval race, both Kaiser Wilhelm II and general Ludendorff immediately sought to restart the pre-war Flottenpolitik.  The SPD and the FVP opposed the expenditures caused by the Naval Race and deemed it unnecessary. Both parties said that the money could be spent better on helping the population recover from the war. Other parties, most notably the NLP, DRP and DVLP supported the arms race or took an indifferent stance like the Zentrum. In May hostilities between the newly established Commune of France and Switzerland over Haute-Savoie started reaching a dangerous level. Chancellor von Hindenburg and Ludendorff openly questioned the possibility of an intervention in France. French diplomats are sent to Germany to assure that the French government will cooperate with Germany. A ceasefire between the Commune of France and Switzerland was signed shortly afterwards. The Treaty of Nancy was signed just weeks later which include the following points:

The Provisional Communal Government agrees to respect the territorial changes of the treaty of Versailles, except for the part of the coastal strip now held by Syndicalist Militias
The Provisional Communal Government agrees to respect all the other clauses of the treaty of Versailles, including the indemnities and the destruction of the fortifications
The Provisional Communal Government agrees to send 115 tons of French grain to Germany in exchange for a small reduction of indemnities
The German Empire won’t threaten the Provisional Communal Government and will not intervene in internal French affairs (and so in the civil war).
In the early autumn of 1920 talks for the establishment of an economic bloc led by Germany started in Berlin. It would encompass all countries on the European continent. Many smaller European nations like Norway or the Netherlands opposed the dominant position Germany would have in this pact. The talks ended in a stalemate, with many countries disagreeing on the initial proposal. Diplomats sent by the Commune of France reassured their support for the project.

1921
The Kriegsamt finally allowed all formerly closed businesses to reopen once more. Many went bankrupt during the war, which left masses of demobilized soldiers and workers unemployed after the end of the war. Talks to establish an economic bloc started in Berlin. The foundation of Mitteleuropa was announced in March. While the project alienated many of the German aligned countries, all newly created countries in Eastern Europe joined the economic alliance. Revolutionary France on the other hand decided to not attend the talks, greatly angering General Ludendorff and the Kaiser. The liberal parties denounce the chancellor that the alliance will be of little economic benefit if it doesn’t encompass all of Europe. Secret talks for an intervention in France take place amongst the military, but are discarded as too dangerous. Many former French colonies are renamed to remove any connections with their former overlords, e.g. Nouvelle-Calédonie to Neu-Elsaß.

The Eastern Aid (Osthilfe) is a government policy instituted to relieve the bankrupt junker estates in Prussia. The Russian Invasion in 1914 had done great damage to the region, which was already becoming depopulated as people migrated westwards into the booming Rhineland. The government’s plans to resettle Germans to the Polish Frontier Strip and industrialize it are also covered by the Eastern Aid.
The public opinion of Chancellor von Hindenburg and the Kaiser are on an all-time low. Since the SPD started to denounce the government as a puppet of the military, other parties like the FVP, the Zentrum and even the NLP demand to immediately remove the Enabling Act  and hold elections. The Kaiser has an indifferent opinion about Ludendorff, however is not unwilling to remove him. General Ludendorff threatened the SPD to ban the organisation, like the other socialist parties were in 1918. The SPD counters Ludendorff by threatening to call for a general strike. Ludendorff knowing that this move could end his rule and maybe plunge Germany into a civil war agreed to the demands to abolish the Enabling Act  – once a peace treaty with Britain is signed and the war with Japan is won. This point marked the formation of a democratic opposition against the dictatorship, with the SPD on one side, the Zentrum, FVP and NLP on another and the von Hindenburg government. In November general Ludendorff offered British Prime Minister Andrew Boner Law a formal white peace, enshrining the terms of the 1919 Ceasefire of Copenhagen. The treaty was formally signed on November 11th, 1921, declaring the end of the Weltkrieg after more than seven years of a war that had changed the destiny of Europe forever. One week after the White Peace with the rest of the Entente (besides Japan) was signed the SPD called for a repelling of the Enabling Act in the Reichstag. Besides the FVP no other party was supportive of the move.

1922
Despite the reopening of businesses all over the Empire, many workers and soldiers remained unemployed. Agitation in the Reichstag and amongst the population against the chancellor grew stronger. The calls for election were coming from two sides. Even liberal and catholic newspapers called the dictatorship by its name.


In February chancellor von Hindenburg passed a law which banned many socialist newspapers, even SPD aligned ones, due to supposed revolutionary agendas. The largest one of these was "Die Freiheit." Protests in the Reichstag by SPD, FVP, NLP and Zentrum deputies remained unheard.


Later in the same month a law for press censorship was passed, reintroducing press censorship during peacetime. This law did not only attack the SPD, but also the liberal parties in the Empire.

All factions in the Reichstag criticized von Hindenburg for introducing this law even the extra-parliamentary DVLP opposed this move for not being introduced at the right time.

Strikes were organized by the SPD in march to protest against the laws, to no avail. The Kaiser did not react to this outrage at all – having surrendered most of his powers to the Field Marshal duo. The conservatives feared that the Kaiser not intervening and removing Ludendorff would cause harm to the already weak monarchy. This fear became true when the SPD started to target not only Ludendorff by June, but also questioned the Kaiser’s ability to rule the country.

After the formation of the China Consortium in February, peace talks between Germany and Japan started. The Tsingtau Akkord was signed on 6th November 1922, finally ending the Weltkrieg in the Far East. However the accord intentionally avoided definitive statements about the legitimate ownership of the Shandong Concessions, functionally leaving the dispute open but Japanese pride at least somewhat intact. The DVLP protested against the “defeat” in Asia.

Even though the war was over once and for all the aftermath proved to be costly too. The Dreadnought Race started to strain the budget and some of the newly acquired French colonies proved to be more of a burden than a relief.

1923	
After a short article about the slow reconstruction of an East Prussian brewery in Ortelsburg was published in the socialist newspaper “Vorwärts”, a workers fund was created. Even though large parts of the dramatizing article were censored, many felt readers affected. The fund was a huge success and unions all over the country started to collect funds to rebuild factories and workers homes that were damaged during the war. The public of the non-affected provinces knew little of the slow pace of the rebuilding process and soon many major newspapers wrote stories about the “German losers of the Weltkrieg”. Soon the reconstruction was a topic in the Reichstag, with all major factions, this time especially the DkP, questioning the government's funding policy and how the SPD is able to do it much faster and more efficient.

Ludendorff was distraught by the sudden and very successful SPD campaign. The increasing resistance of conservative parties disturbed both von Hindenburg and Ludendorff, who desperately tried to make amends with their old allies to more effectively cement their crumbling rule.

It would not take long until the next scandal surfaced. On 10th July the liberal newspaper “Berliner Tageblatt” published a lengthy expose on misused funds of the Eastern Aid. Most explosively, it named Wilhelm Breucker, adjutant to General Ludendorff, as one of the biggest culprits, and suggested the general had full knowledge of what was happening, perhaps even encouraging or facilitating it. Albeit the recently instituted press censorship should have prohibited the publishing of the highly incriminating story, no actions were taken. Despite the immediate reaction of the army, to confiscate all unsold copies of the paper, other newspapers published the very same story on behalf of the chief editor Theodor Wolff. On the morning of July 11th, Die Post, Die Frankfurter Zeitung and Die Allgemeine Zeitung all carried the story of the Eastern Aid Scandal and by that evening the Kaiser was reading it at his cure residence.
The Kaiser abruptly cancelled his vacation and scheduled a meeting with Chancellor von Hindenburg. Ludendorff wanted to meet the Kaiser too, but was rebuffed. The panicking General spent the day with calling friendly army officers to a meeting at the Hotel Adlon of Berlin the following day. When his car pulled up to the hotel, it was surrounded by policemen, who placed the field marshal under arrest.

The de facto leader of the German Empire was handcuffed and taken to Kaiser Wilhelm II at the Berliner Stadtschloss. In front of the generals he had presumed were his allies, von Hindenburg, von Tirpitz, Wolff and many other journalists, and the leaders of every major political party in Germany, including Friedrich Ebert of the SPD. The Kaiser stripped Erich Ludendorff of his command and ordered him to retire. The unoccupied position of first quartermaster general was abolished after his forced resignation. Kaiser Wilhelm II made a public announcement that claimed that the forced resignation was "to provide our most loyal and selfless defender with an opportunity for rest", as well as elections were to be held immediately.

Since Ludendorff was the sole remaining supporter of the failing border strip project it was silently returned to the Kingdom of Poland at their request. The lack of funds and investment in the area made it an unappealing prospect for resettlement with even Russian-Germans and destitute soldiers.

The German Elections of 1923 
The elections took place just two weeks after the the Eastern Aid Scandal. The DVLP, a new conservative mass party threatened the existence of the smaller DkP and DRP who only focus on certain agrarian based interest groups. Alfred von Tirpitz, leader of the DVLP, sidelined the pan german wing of the party, hoping to attract moderate voters as well. The DkP has lost many deputies to von Tirpitz’ DVLP. They only continue to exist thanks to its two leaders, mainly the popular Ernst von Heydebrand und der Lasa and Kuno Graf von Westarp who were unwilling to merge with the DVLP. The SPD was confident to secure a majority in the Reichstag with a very confrontational campaign against Ludendorff and the monarchy, hoping that the people would disapprove of the dictatorship, backed by the shadow Kaiser. After two weeks of feverish campaigning known as Tage der Schreihälse (English: Days of the Squallers) the results were announced.

The SPD was once more the strongest party in the Reichstag, winning 34% of the vote, albeit losing a small percentage of its voters and seats, following to the departure of the more radical wing of the USPD under Karl Liebknecht. The DVLP came in second with 20% of the voters share, due to Tirpitz’ charismatic speeches and no interference of the pan-German party wing. The FVP came in third, forming the largest bourgeois party, receving 16% of the vote.

The Zentrum lost many liberal and left-wing votes, with them only receiving 14% of the vote. This caused many people to call for a reform of the party, the most notable advocates were Brauns and Stegerwald. Brauns soon after the election published the Cologne program. It advocated for opening the party up to protestants - in order to showcase this, he also proposed for adopting the name of “Christliche Volkspartei”. The program was mostly accepted except for the proposal to change the name. This move didn’t help the Zentrum much in appealing to protestants. Erzberger and other centralists also push for the adoption of unitarianism in the program, which was accepted but causes widespread opposition from the Bavarian branch of the party,which eventually broke off and fromed the Bayerische Volkspartei (BVP), though they kept one parliamentary faction after many concessions, for now.

The NLP received a moderate 9%, the DkP received 5%, and the DRP received only 3% of the vote.

Alfred von Tirpitz
Alfred von Tirpitz

The Kaiser decided to name Alfred von Tirpitz chancellor, much to the dismay of the strong SPD and the FVP. The former chancellor Paul von Hindenburg retired to his villa in Hanover. The new Reichskanzler Tirpitz honored his promise of compromise to the Kaiser and created a broad coalition of the DVLP, Zentrum, NLP, DkP and DRP, giving them a comfortable majority to pull Germany out of stagnation. The policy to include the NLP and the Zentrum however has been seen with dismay by many members of the DVLP and the more radical deputies in the Reichstag formed an inner circle led by the media mogul Alfred Hugenberg to combat their influence. One of the first decrees by the new government was to undo many changes made by the “Hindenburg Programme” as well as abolishing most of the laws passed during the Ludendorff era. After the death of Reichsbank President Havenstein, Karl Helfferich, a DVLP member, succeeded him.
The DVLP embarked on a program of economic liberalization. Coming after a period of stagnant internal growth, this coincided with the profits from investments in Mitteleuropa coming in; the result was an economic boom that would last for the duration of von Tirpitz' chancellorship, cementing his immense popularity and reputation as "The Second Bismarck."

1924 Olympics
The 1924 Olympics hosted in Berlin were a huge success for the Empire. To the surprise of the press and the public, Kaiser Wilhelm II attended the games with his newly wed wife, Hermine von Reuß ältere Linie. Since after the Weltkrieg and the Ludendorff dictatorship, the Kaiser lived a secluded life and did not attend any public events. Since then, crown prince Wilhelm von Preußen stood in the spotlight. In the games, German athletes scored 39 gold medals, 27 silver medals and 21 bronze medals. But the medal count was not the only great thing - the United Kingdom decided to attend too, which made the German government hope that they would not be bitter over the result of the Weltkrieg. 
Chancellor von Tirpitz ended his policy of retrenchment in late 1924, by backing the independence of the Don-Kuban Union. This was soon followed by a well-executed “rescue” of British colonial possessions left isolated by the British Revolution in 1925 and limited intervention in China just one year later. By the end of 1926 von Tirpitz had built a newly strengthened peace and position in China for Germany, leveraged through a series of agreements with the other great powers and guaranteed by partnerships with the new Qing Government and sub-national institutions. The newly acquired British holdings in Africa were to be protected and administered by Mittelafrika until “responsible government” is restored to Great Britain.

In Europe, von Tirpitz did not have similar success; with the Union of Britain and the Socialist Republic of Italy now firmly established as allies of the Commune of France, he failed in preventing the formation of an anti-German bloc.

The coalition has also approved of several social reforms to keep the SPD down. The most important one is the eight hour workday, promised by the Zentrum since before the war. This increasingly drew workers to support the DVLP, but not enough to make it the strongest party in the Reichstag. Von Tirpitz also clamped down on the anti-parliament wing of the party. He hoped to prevent the party from splitting up by excluding radicals from high positions, but Hugenberg and his clique didn’t surrender that easily. 

After the fall of Britain to revolutionaries, the start of the Great Depression in the USA and the successful intervention in China, a move that further increased tension with Japan, but also hampered their ship production, the Dreadnought Race finally ended in 1926. This didn’t put capital shipbuilding to an end in Germany, but it severely reduced the number of ships that were built. Nevertheless the construction of the Kaiser Wilhelm II, the world’s largest dreadnought, only started after 1926.

Von Tirpitz’ first tenure as chancellor saw the start of many railroad projects connecting Azerbaijan to Germany to create a secure shipping route for any incoming oil transports. Germany was able to create two new big transport routes in Eastern Europe. Many German companies opened subsidiaries in the Eastern European countries, even if the original purpose of these countries was being the granaries of Germany. Vereinigte Königs- und Laurahüttenwerke is the largest German owned mining concern that operates Poland up until 1936, even surpassing Krupp. The more lenient social rights of the workers, and the closer access to the oil shipped from Azerbaijan meant that it was more profitable to build factories in the Ostraum and send the finished products to wealthier markets.

Germany in 1928 Edit
Elections were scheduled to take place in March. The DVLP under Tirpitz promoted the order, stability and wealth it brought to the German people and antagonized the SPD, colouring them as traitors to the state. The SPD on the other hand now promoted peace and equal rights for German citizens, called for a reform of the voting system and even better conditions for the working class. The SPD was also denounced by the NLP and the conservative Zentrum as left wing radicals, desperately trying to gain some more voters after being sidelined by the DVLP in the grand coalition. The FVP was unable to be a successful opposition party, compared to the SPD. Its campaigning of a more liberal society and more rights for the poor did not catch much attention.

The election was a success for Chancellor Tirpitz and his DVLP. with them receiving 26% of the vote. Despite not being able to dethrone the SPD in the popular vote, they were able to secure the most seats in the Reichstag. The SPD gained 32% of the vote, which made the leader of the SPD, Friedrich Ebert, decided to step back from leadership, in favour of Otto Wels. Wels, who is unpopular amongst the members of the radical wing gained notoriety during the failed 1918 revolution for staunchly supporting the Empire and speaking out against the revolutionary crowd. The two liberal parties, the FVP and the NLP, both lost many seats in the Reichstag with their unsuccessful campaigning, with the former receiving 14% of the vote and the latter 10% of the vote. The DkP received 6% of the vote, and the DRP received 4% of the vote.

The months following the election were tough for the FVP. Seeing no end to their decline, with more and more people turning their back to the party and joining the SPD, they turned to their former ally during the Weltkrieg and against the Ludendorff dictatorship and started talks for a united front against the nationalistic DVLP. Although this proposal was met with indifference at first, meetings started regardless, since the SPD saw an alliance with the FVP as a way to enter the government in a coalition with the progressive and socially liberal party.

The weak results for the Zentrum caused massive opposition to Erzberger, blaming his left-wing policies for the Zentrum’s lack of success. The centrist Wilhelm Marx became the new leader of the Zentrum. His focus being on trying to reunite the party in order to prevent more electoral losses fails completely.

On June 6th 1930, Reichskanzler von Tirpitz died suddenly during a visit to Hamburg. His death caught the DVLP flat-footed; no other politician was even close to being a possible successor. After von Tirpitz' burial parade through Berlin became the largest mass gathering Germany had ever seen, the ‘original party’ wing leader Alfred Hugenberg won the party-internal chairman elections against Ulrich von Hessel.

Kuno von Westarp
Kuno Graf von Westarp

But even though Hugenberg immediately started a massive campaign to promote himself as the only possible successor of Germany's Second-Greatest Chancellor, the Kaiser did not choose Hugenberg as new Reichskanzler. Instead Kuno Graf von Westarp, chairman of the German-conservative party (DkP), was appointed to be Reichskanzler on August 3rd 1930, on the promise of mostly following up on von Tirpitz’ programme, however without the NLP and the remnants of the DVLP.
Shocked and outraged at this most likely personally motivated crossing, Hugenberg entrenched the pan-German ideology in the party (rabid nationalism, anti-Semitism, authoritarianism, desire of unification into a Greater Germany, economic laws favouring the junkers), with added anti-government propaganda.

Many party members including the lion of Africa, Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck, decided to abandon the party for good and support the DkP or the liberal conservative DRP. Many deputies in the Reichstag did the very same and now decided to support a  different faction, leaving only right wing radicals back.

The president of the Reichsbank, Karl Helfferich, announced his retirement from the position of president of the Reichsbank just shortly after, with the intent to pursue a position as secretary of the Reichswirtschaftsamt after expressing his discontent with the current secretary, Tilo von Wilmowsky. He successfully offered himself to replace Wilmowsky and the Kaiser's favourite candidate, the renowned economist Hjalmar Schacht, was announced to succeed Helfferich as president of the Reichsbank.

The leader of the DkP, Kuno von Westarp, had to revise the politics of the party. The influx of members of the DVLP forced him to open the party up. This alienated his most powerful supporters, the BdL (Bund der Landwirte), the extreme conservative agrarian big landowners and the landed aristocracy. They formed a party internal coalition against his new policies in favour of dropping the DVLP supporters to return to the roots of the party, that previously only supported their position. 

Germany in 1932 Edit
During the election campaigning of 1932 new alliances could be seen: The SPD and the FVP, against the DkP-DRP-Zentrum. After the death of Gustav Stresemann in 1929, Eduard Dingeldey took over the party leadership, but he was not able to secure a place for the party in the ruling coalition after Westarp was named chancellor. Dingeldey couldn’t stop party members from turning their back to the party after the DkP presented itself as a more credible alternative. Even in Hanover, a national liberal hotbed, many turned towards the local DHP or the FVP. The DVLP tried to mobilize young right wing voters as well as the junkers, but they had little success. The only backing they received was from wealthy armaments industrialists - hoping for a more aggressive foreign policy and enlargement of the military.

The outcome of the elections in 1932 was a surprise to most. The DVLP lost many voters and seats in the Reichstag to the DkP as well as to the DRP, with the DVLP receiving 5% of the vote, the DkP receving 28% of the vote, and the DRP receiving 6% of the vote. This proves that Westarps new policies proved to be successful, however at great cost. Some highly influential agrarians threatened to turn their back to the party should they not return to its roots. The DkP did not and so they decided to throw in their support for Alfred Hugenberg, helping his party to not fall into oblivion for now. The Zentrum wasn’t able to score more seats than in 1928. The SPD and the FVP benefited from the fall of the DVLP and NLP, with the NLP just receiving 6% of the vote, while the SPD received 34% of the vote, and the FVP received 14% of the vote. In the end Kuno von Westarp was once more named Reichskanzler. The Kaiser did not react on the NLP’s proposition to name Hans Luther chancellor and to once more form a grand coalition.

After the failure in the elections, Dingeldey resigned as chairman of the NLP, eventually being replaced by the Reichsbank president Hjalmar Schacht. Julius Curtius has been chosen as the new chancellor option of the party, him trying to go in a completely different direction from Stresemann, focusing on trying to reform Mitteleuropa in a more fair economic union, and expanding it into the rest of Europe. He sees the ‘attractive’ union as a way to shackle other economies to the German one, furthering Germany by promoting European peace and enlarging its market.

The DkP opposed the former governments’ colonial adventures in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe, as they feared that the cheap grain was putting too much strain on the economy of the junkers. Despite this they had to agree to even enlarge the budget of the colonies to not endanger the coalition. Despite their protectionist nature, they cannot enact any reforms to protect the economy, since those would hurt the economy even more

Wilhelm Marx’s failure to prevent the electoral losses caused the agrarian centralist wing under Franz von Papen to take over; this change in leadership led to many of the more federalist wings of the party to break off and form their own local splinter parties. 

The SPD and the FVP decided to continue their alliance. While the FVP couldn't gain any new voters and was seen as bourgeois outlet of the SPD, they continue to get support from the declining social liberal bourgeoisie. Their leader, the renowned economist Walther Rathenau, warned that the continued buildup of the fleet and the subventions for the junkers were dangerous in the long term.

In the last years of Westarp’s chancellorship the economy of the Empire experienced an economic slowdown. The president of the Reichsbank, Hjalmar Schacht, warned the chancellor to take action, but fell on deaf ears.
